disclaimer: this is a summary of git-scm.com for my own studies.
# Git Branching

### 1. Branches in a Nutshell
* There are four objects in git: blob, tree, commit, and tag. Blog generally stores contents of a file, tree is a simple object that has a bunch of pointers to blobs and other trees, the "commit" object links a physical state of a tree with a description of how we got there and why, and tag object contains an object name (called simply 'object'), object type, tag name, the name of the person ("tagger") who created the tag, and a message, which may contain a signature.

* A branch in Git is simply a lightweight movable pointer to one of these commits. The default branch name is master. As you start making commits, you’re given a master branch that points to the last commit you made. Every time you commit, the master branch pointer moves forward automatically. 

* You can simply create a branch by executing `git branch <new_branch_name>`. `git branch` shows a list of branch and the branch that you are currently on, pointed by HEAD pointer. 

* `git checkout <branch>` switches to the new branch by redirecting HEAD pointer to that branch.  

### 2. Basic Branching and Mergin
* You can create a branch and checkout that branch immediately by adding `-b` option: `git checkout -b <branch>`. You can delete the branch by `git branch -d <branch>`. 

* You can merge another branch into your current branch by `git merge <branch>`. 

* You can use `git mergetool` to resolve merge conflict.

### 3. Branch Management
`git branch -v` shows the last commit on each branch. `--merged` and `--no-merged` options can filter the commit list to branches that you have or have not yet merged into the branch you're currently on. 

### 4. Branching Workflows
There are many git workflows such as long-running branches or topic branches.

### 5.   
